Not to do the integration with three on my VM and this is my NPM am I'm going to change the network
adapter to use the VM net.
One host only on my physical machine I have to VM net adapters a VM to one and VM net 8.
Previously my virtual machine was bridged to the physical adapter but to allow it to be controlled by
Jeana's three I'm going to change it to VM net one host only.
I'm also going to change firewall settings and turn off the firewall so that I can ping the virtual
machine from my genius three routers that will just make it easier in the lab to do testing.
What I also need to do is shut down the virtual machine so that genius 3 can control it.
So once again shut the machine down.
I've gone to network adapter settings and set it to to use host only and I've disabled the firewall
what I'll do now is take a snapshot so that I can revert to it if there are any problems.
So NPM installed.
I did that quickly and made a mistake so I'll go to VM snapped shut manager and change the name to NPM
installed.
So now let's configure genius 3 and do the integration so I'm going to start up Jinny's 3 in Windows.
In this case because I am using the genus 3 VM it boots up so you can see my VM is booting up.
It's now successfully booted up and Jeana's 3 then tells me I can create a project someone a cold US
PM one
not to integrate the NPM virtual machine with Jinnah's 3.
I need to go to Edit Preferences ingenius 3 and I'm going to select the VM way the AMS because I am
using VM workstation rather than virtual box.
How a new and in the VM list I can see my NPM virtual machine.
I'm going to click Finish and now I'm going to click Edit go to network and check this option allow
genius 3 to use any configured VM adapter.
I'm going to leave other settings at.
They defaults and click OK and click OK.
So what I have now done is integrated NPM with Jeana's 3 and I can build a topology consisting of rodders
and NPM in the next few videos.
I'm going to show you how to integrate Jeana's 3 and NPM.
Now in this example I'm using the genius 3 VM because it's the recommended way of running GNAS 3 It
also makes sense.
In the example because I'm running NPM on the Windows 7 VM within a VM workstation.
So I've got both NPM running in Windows and Jeannie's three running within the genus 3 VM within a VM
workstation the initial topology that we're going to build consists of three routers connected via serial
interfaces and will advertise routes between these routers using your GOP will also configure an out
of band management network and connect NPM to the out-of-band ethernet network to allow them to manage
to the routers so to bolt our genius 3 topology.
I'm going to drag three routers to the workspace
as well as drag an Ethernet switch to the workspace.
And I'm going to run these into genius 3 VM
I'll cable up the road is using the serial interfaces
so you connect the rajahs via serial interfaces all zoomin and let's view the interface labels.
Serial zero is connected to serial zero on route to serial zero and Rotto one is connected to serial
0 2 0 0 0 1 he's connected to serial 0 0 on router 3 will also connect first.
Ethan it interfaces on each it to the Ethernet switch.
This is going to be used for our management network.
So there are interfaces on the switch and interfaces on the road as well now bring NPM into the topology
and I'm going to connect that via the Ethan an interface to port 4 on the Ethan it switch.
So this allows NPM to manage the rod is using the out-of-band Management Network.
I'll configure the rods with IP addresses on the serial interfaces first and enable routing and then
configure the management interface.